# BOL
Traditional defensive stats like STOCKS (Steals Per Game + Blocks Per Game) often overemphasize blocks which inherently favors taller players like centers. To balance biases from different anthropometric parameters and ensure fair defensive assessments, we propose BOL (Ball Opposition Level). To calculate BOL, we consider each player within the context of their primary position to balance inherent biases between players with different anthropometric parameters, ensuring a fair and comprehensive assessment of defensive performance. The BOL stat introduces different weightages to a player's blocks and steals to normalize the stocks stat across all positions, removing the inherent anthropometric biases present in the traditional stocks stat. We calculate BOL through a two-fold pipeline: (1) We calculate deviations from the average values of Defensive Win Shares (DWS), Defensive Box Plus Minus (DBPM), Fouls Per Game (FPG), and Minutes Per Game (MPG) for players based on their primary positions. These deviations are used to apply penalties or rewards. Specifically, penalties are applied for below-average DWS and DBPM, as well as above-average FPG. Conversely, rewards are given for above-average DWS and DBPM and below-average FPG with above-average MPG. (2) Then a linear regression model is adopted to fit the coefficients for Steals Per Game (SPG) and Blocks Per Game (BPG). The deviations calculated in the first step serve as the independent variables, while steals per game (STL) and blocks per game (BLK) are the dependent variables. The resulting coefficients from the model are used as weights for SPG and BPG in the BOL calculation with each player getting a unique steal and block weight. The final BOL stat is computed using the formula: BOL = (Steal Weight * SPG) + (Block Weight * BPG). The BOL stat offers a more nuanced tool for evaluating defensive performance.
